[js] truststore configuration (#795)
SAP/cloud-sdk: docs/js/features/connectivity/trust-and-key-stores.mdx

---

> title: How the SAP Cloud SDK handles Trust and Keystores

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: How the SAP Cloud SDK handles Trust and Key Stores
```
[pp] I think it should be spelled as two words when not in a code context (e.g. like in this _German_ wikipedia article: https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_Trust_Store)
[q] Is it "Trust- and Key Stores" or "Trust and Key Stores"?

hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false

> sidebar_label: Trust and Keystores

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: Trust and Key Stores
```
[pp] see above

> description: This article describes how configures trust and keystores in the SAP Business Technoligy Platform and how the SDK handles them..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: This article describes how configures trust and key stores in the SAP Business Technology Platform and how the SAP Cloud SDK handles them..
```
[req] Type and SAP Cloud SDK
[pp] key store

keywords:
  - sap
  - cloud
  - sdk
  - destination
  - connectivity
  - JavaScript
  - TypeScript
  - Keystore
  - Truststore
---

## Overview

The essence of web applications is communication between two parties.
These two parties could be a server and a client, two servers or any other combination.
In the communication you want to ensure that:

> 1. You are actually talking to the person you think you talk

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You are actually talking to the correct person, not an imposter 
```
[req] Grammar is wrong in the current version, but my recommendation is [pp]

> 1. You are actually talking to the person you think you talk
> 2. The content of your conversation remains private ensure by some encryption

Reviewer 2: Those are sentences, so here you need a fullstop.

```suggestion
1. You are talking to the party you expect you talk to.
2. The content of your conversation is encrypted and therefore private.
```

> 2. The content of your conversation remains private ensure by some encryption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The content of your conversation remains private through the use of secure encryption
```
[nth] "some" makes it feel very vague. Is ROT13 also "some encryption"? It would certainly not make it a private conversation.

> To ensure this the secure socket layer (SSL) later called transport layer security (TLS) was developed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure this the secure socket layer (SSL) — later called transport layer security (TLS) — was developed.
```
[pp][q] I think an em dash looks better than commas. I used the proper em dash in the suggestion, though maybe we should agree if we use a proper em dash (—) or the shorter hyphen (-) as it is easier to type.

If you want to add this security layer to your request you use `HTTPS` instead of `HTTP`.

The method to achieve both points above (trust and privacy) are private and public keys.
Such keys offer the following properties:

- You can encrypt something with one key, but only with the counterpart you can decrypt it.
- You can distribute one key but you can not derive the other part from the distributed one.

The process of encrypting something with the private key is sometimes called `signing`, because everybody can check the signature with the public key.
The format of the private and public keys are certificates which provide additional information like:

- the used encryption algorithm
- the issuer of the key pair
- the validity of the key
- the domain the key was issued for

>   ...

Reviewer 2: Vale! Maybe use `- etc.` ?

>   ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
[pp] The introduction sentence for this list hints that this is not a complete list. Therefore no ellipsis is needed.

### Formats and Naming

We already introduced a few terms like certificate for the public and private key.
However, we would like to introduce a few terms:

> - `Keystore`: A keystore is an object containing keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Key store: A key store is an object containing keys.
```
[pp] See above

>   In most cases these are private and public key pairs as introduced above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Usually these are private and public key pairs as introduced above, but it may contain a certificate instead.
```
[nth] Combined this with the sentence below.

>   You need a password to open a keystore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You need a password to open a key store.
```
[pp] See above

>   Note that a keystore may also contain just a certificate but in general the term is used for the object containing pairs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
[nth] See above

>   Typical formats are `.JKS`, `.P12`, `.PFCKS` and `.PKCS7`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Typical formats are `.JKS`, `.P12`, `.PFCKS`, and `.PKCS7`
```
[pp][q] I prefer the Oxford comma. This should be decided in our docs style guide.

> - `Truststore`: A truststore contains public keys i.e. certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Trust store: A trust store contains public keys like certificates.
```
[pp] See above

>   Depending on the format also a truststore is protected by a password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Some formats allow you to protect the trust store with a password.
```
[nth][pp] Passive voice and trust store.

>   Typical formats are `.JKS`, `.CRT`, `.PEM` and `.PUB` and `.DER`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Typical formats are `.JKS`, `.CRT`, `.PEM`, `.PUB`, and `.DER`.
```
[req] Double "and"
[pp] Oxford comma

Reviewer: ⬆️ this comment is still open

> For X.509 certificate there are two encodings base64 ASCII (e.g. `.PEM`) and binary (e.g. `.DER`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For X.509 certificate there are two encodings: base64 ASCII (e.g. `.PEM`) and binary (e.g. `.DER`).
```
[pp] I think it reads much better with a colon.

The content of a PEM file looks like:

```
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
MIIFZjCCA06gAwIBAgIQGHcPvmUGa79M6pM42bGFYjANBgkqhkiG9wA
….
LvHPhNDM3rMsLu06agF4JTbO8ANYtWQTx0PVrZKJu+8fcIaUp7MVBIVZ
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
```

> ### One Way SSL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### One-Way SSL
```
[pp] Most online articles I found spell it with a hyphen: https://developer.visa.com/pages/working-with-visa-apis/two-way-ssl
[req] Disable SSL in the Heading Acronyms rule (or locally disable this rule)

The typical situation is that a client requests something from a public server and wants to be sure that the server is not somebody else.
The server does not really care about the identity of the client.
The identity is verified in the following way:

- Server presents the public key (certificate) and some signed content to the client.
- Client checks that the domain in the certificate matches the requested resource.
- Client checks that the certificate issuer is in the listed of trusted [certificate authorities (CA)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_authority).
- Client checks that the content was actually signed with the public key.

If all checks have passed, the server is trustworthy.
Creating a secure connection is possible using also the private and public keys.
For a encrypted connection you need to interchange a secret.
An initial secret can be encrypted using the public certificate and send back to the server.
This is the starting point for a private connection between client and server.

> ### Two Way SSL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Two-Way SSL
```
[pp] see above

Sometimes you would also like to verify the identity of the client.
You can do this via a username and password or some authentication token.
However, you can also use a private and public key pair to do that.

You would store the public part of your client certificate in the server.
When sending a request you then access your keystore and sign your request with the private part.

> This is called `client certificate authentication` or two way SSL because the identity of server and client is verified using private and public keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is called `client certificate authentication` or two-way SSL because the identity of server and client is verified using private and public keys.
```
[pp] see above

> ## Truststore Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Trust Store Configuration
```
[pp] As described above

In most cases your server will use a certificate from a trusted CAs and one way SSL just works without additional actions.
Sometimes this is not possible and locally created key pairs also call `self signed certificates` are used.
Per default, browsers and node clients do not trust such a certificate.
You will encounter errors like:

```
Error: self signed certificate in certificate chain.
```

In such a case you need to add the self-signed certificate to the `ca` property of the [node http client](https://nodejs.org/api/tls.html#tlscreatesecurecontextoptions).

> The SAP Cloud SDK does this for you if you maintain the truststore configuration via the destination service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SAP Cloud SDK does this for you if you maintain the trust store configuration via the destination service.
```
[pp] see above

  The password value is only relevant for java keys store format (JKS).

Note that you can also upload certificates in the destination service instance.
The SAP Cloud SDK searches the subaccount first and only if no certificate with the given name is found proceeds to the instance certificates.

:::caution
The SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript supports only `.pem` as certificate format.
:::

:::caution
The SAP Cloud SDK also considers the `TrustAll` property on the destination.
This leads to `rejectUnauthorized: false` in the node client and should be used with great caution.
If you trust everybody you are vulnerable to man in the middle attacks.
Avoid this options if possible.
:::

## Keystore Configuration

As discussed above you can also use certificate to authenticate the client.
This is the mentioned two way SSL situation and is called `clientCertificateAuthentication` in the destination service.
The SAP Cloud SDK supports this authentication flow.
You have to do the following steps:

- Upload the keystore in destinations section of the subaccount

> - Configure the destination to use [ClientCertificateAuthentication](sap destination service TrustStoreLocation) and provide the keystore information like keystore name and password.

Reviewer: `[ClientCertificateAuthentication](sap destination service TrustStoreLocation)`

[req] The link here needs to be configured correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configure the destination to use [ClientCertificateAuthentication](sap destination service TrustStoreLocation) and provide the key store information like key store name and password.
```
[pp] See above

:::caution

> The SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript supports only `.P12` and `.PFX` as formats for the keystore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript only supports formats `.P12` and `.PFX` for key stores.
```
